README.md, before:

## FoodPriceNet - An Ontological Approach to Semantic Modeling of Food Price Relationships

FoodPriceNet is a semantic knowledge graph intended to represent and examine connections among food categories, the Consumer Price Index (CPI), and the Producer Price Index (PPI). Through the integration of various economic indicators into a cohesive ontology, the project provides a systematic, clear perspective on how price fluctuations correlate throughout the food supply chain from producers to end consumers.
\
\
Essentially, FoodPriceNet employs semantic web technologies (RDF, OWL, SPARQL) to depict food-economy concepts in a machine-readable and expandable format. This enables users to analyze pricing connections, connect datasets with common vocabularies, and execute intricate queries that surpass standard statistics or flat data tables.
\
\
The knowledge graph can assist in addressing queries in simple ways such as:
- In what way are shifts in producer prices (PPI) connected to subsequent consumer price movements (CPI) for particular food categories?
- In what ways do pressures on retail and wholesale prices spread across various sectors of the food economy?
- What structural relationships are present among food categories that affect the fluctuations of prices over time?


## ⚙️ Tech Stack

🔸**Frontend**: React.js
\
🔸**Backend**: Flask
\
🔸**Ontology Editor**: Protege
\
🔸**Triples Format**: Turtle (.ttl file)
\
🔸**Triple Store & SPARQL Server**: Apache Jena Fuseki

## 🎥 Application Demonstration
### Application Home Page
![Homepage](front-end/src/assets/demo/homepage.png "Home Page")
### Application Fuseki Server
![Fuseki](front-end/src/assets/demo/fuseki-server.png "Fuseki Server")
### Sample Query 1 - Retrieve the number of triples for the FoodPriceNet KG
![Query1](front-end/src/assets/demo/sample-1.png "Sample Query 1 - Retrieve the number of triples for the FoodPriceNet KG")
### Sample Query 2 - Retrieve all food categories stated in the FoodPriceNet KG
![Query2](front-end/src/assets/demo/sample-2.png "Sample Query 2 - Retrieve all food categories stated in the FoodPriceNet KG")
### Sample Query 3 - Retrieve the average CPI price per item in the FoodPriceNet KG
![Query3](front-end/src/assets/demo/sample-8.png "Sample Query 3 - Retrieve the average CPI price per item in the FoodPriceNet KG")


## 🏗️ Setup Instructions

Follow the steps below to build and run the application using Docker Compose.

### 🔹Prerequisites

Make sure the following are installed on your system:
- Docker
- Docker Compose (Docker Desktop which includes Compose)

### 🔹Steps
1. **Clone the Repository**
```
git clone https://github.com/jpimplik/SER531-Group5.git
cd SER531-Group5
```

2. **Build and Run the Application**

Run the following command from the project root:
```
docker compose up --build
```

This will:
- Build all required images
- Start all containers defined in the docker-compose.yml file

3. **Access the Application**

Once the containers are up, you can access the application at:
```
http://localhost:3000
```

4. **Stopping the Application**

To stop all running containers:
```
docker compose down -v
```

5. **Rebuilding After Changes (optional)**

If you update code or dependencies and want to rebuild:
```
docker compose up --build
```

## 🤝 Contributors

1. Janhavi Pimplikar
2. Ekta Anturkar
3. Rohith H N
4. Vatsayu Patel
5. Vidhi Patel

Commit message:

Add link to more sample queries
Added a link to additional sample queries in the README.

README.md, after:

## FoodPriceNet - An Ontological Approach to Semantic Modeling of Food Price Relationships

FoodPriceNet is a semantic knowledge graph intended to represent and examine connections among food categories, the Consumer Price Index (CPI), and the Producer Price Index (PPI). Through the integration of various economic indicators into a cohesive ontology, the project provides a systematic, clear perspective on how price fluctuations correlate throughout the food supply chain from producers to end consumers.
\
\
Essentially, FoodPriceNet employs semantic web technologies (RDF, OWL, SPARQL) to depict food-economy concepts in a machine-readable and expandable format. This enables users to analyze pricing connections, connect datasets with common vocabularies, and execute intricate queries that surpass standard statistics or flat data tables.
\
\
The knowledge graph can assist in addressing queries in simple ways such as:
- In what way are shifts in producer prices (PPI) connected to subsequent consumer price movements (CPI) for particular food categories?
- In what ways do pressures on retail and wholesale prices spread across various sectors of the food economy?
- What structural relationships are present among food categories that affect the fluctuations of prices over time?


## ⚙️ Tech Stack

🔸**Frontend**: React.js
\
🔸**Backend**: Flask
\
🔸**Ontology Editor**: Protege
\
🔸**Triples Format**: Turtle (.ttl file)
\
🔸**Triple Store & SPARQL Server**: Apache Jena Fuseki

## 🎥 Application Demonstration
### Application Home Page
![Homepage](front-end/src/assets/demo/homepage.png "Home Page")
### Application Fuseki Server
![Fuseki](front-end/src/assets/demo/fuseki-server.png "Fuseki Server")
### Sample Query 1 - Retrieve the number of triples for the FoodPriceNet KG
![Query1](front-end/src/assets/demo/sample-1.png "Sample Query 1 - Retrieve the number of triples for the FoodPriceNet KG")
### Sample Query 2 - Retrieve all food categories stated in the FoodPriceNet KG
![Query2](front-end/src/assets/demo/sample-2.png "Sample Query 2 - Retrieve all food categories stated in the FoodPriceNet KG")
### Sample Query 3 - Retrieve the average CPI price per item in the FoodPriceNet KG
![Query3](front-end/src/assets/demo/sample-8.png "Sample Query 3 - Retrieve the average CPI price per item in the FoodPriceNet KG")

[Click here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xqmQLcFyeZFCz-XPtyRC35CmkL7bJpV5zoMa8ajUYKY/edit?usp=sharing) to find more sample queries to run in the application!


## 🏗️ Setup Instructions

Follow the steps below to build and run the application using Docker Compose.

### 🔹Prerequisites

Make sure the following are installed on your system:
- Docker
- Docker Compose (Docker Desktop which includes Compose)

### 🔹Steps
1. **Clone the Repository**
```
git clone https://github.com/jpimplik/SER531-Group5.git
cd SER531-Group5
```

2. **Build and Run the Application**

Run the following command from the project root:
```
docker compose up --build
```

This will:
- Build all required images
- Start all containers defined in the docker-compose.yml file

3. **Access the Application**

Once the containers are up, you can access the application at:
```
http://localhost:3000
```

4. **Stopping the Application**

To stop all running containers:
```
docker compose down -v
```

5. **Rebuilding After Changes (optional)**

If you update code or dependencies and want to rebuild:
```
docker compose up --build
```

## 🤝 Contributors

1. Janhavi Pimplikar
2. Ekta Anturkar
3. Rohith H N
4. Vatsayu Patel
5. Vidhi Patel
